[KB-185] Define SVR (#147)
chhoumann/thesis-chemcam: report_thesis/src/sections/background.tex

The components are then used to predict the target variable by fitting a linear model via least squares regression.

\subsubsection{Support Vector Regression (SVR)}
\gls{svr} is a regression technique that extends the principles of \gls{svm} to regression problems.
We therefore provide an overview of \gls{svm}s based on \citet{James2023AnIS} before discussing \gls{svr}s.

\gls{svm} is a supervised learning algorithm used primarily for classification tasks.
A core concept in \gls{svm} is the \textit{hyperplane}.
Generally, a hyperplane is a subspace of one dimension less than its ambient space.
This means that in a two-dimensional space, a hyperplane is a line, while in a three-dimensional space, it is a plane, and so on.

\gls{svm} is built on the idea of finding the hyperplane that best separates the data points into different classes.
This hyperplane is chosen to maximize the margin, which is the distance between the hyperplane and the nearest data point from either class.

> The data points that lie closest to the hyperplane are called \textit{support vectors}.

Reviewer: Support vectors are not just any points close to the hyperplane; they are specifically the points that lie on or within the margin.

```suggestion
The instances right on or inside the margin are called \textit{support vectors}, which are used to 'support' the margin and decision boundary.
```

Author: What do you mean by 'instances' in the suggestion?

Reviewer: 'Instance' is a general ML term for each training example, e.g., the rows in our masked avg. intensity matrix.

> % Mathematically, \gls{svm} solves the optimization problem:

Reviewer: There are multiple ways to train SVM classifiers, and explaining the math would take the entire duration of our exam. For example, you provide only the definition here for soft-margin SVMs (apparent at a glance from the $\xi$ slack variable). There's also hard-margin SVM. And there's the entirely different way of solving it, by solving the dual problem. And that isn't even mentioning kernelized SVMs.

I vote to keep it out of the report so we can actually focus on the contents of our paper during the exam this time...

Author: Agreed.

% $$
% \min_{\mathbf{w}, b, \xi} \frac{1}{2} \|\mathbf{w}\|^2 + C \sum_{i=1}^{n} \xi_i,
% $$

% subject to:

% $$
% y_i (\mathbf{w} \cdot \mathbf{x}_i + b) \geq 1 - \xi_i,
% $$

% where:

% \begin{itemize}
% 	\item $\mathbf{w}$ is the normal vector to the hyperplane,
% 	\item $b$ is the bias term,
% 	\item $\xi_i$ are slack variables that allow some points to be within the margin or misclassified, and
% 	\item $C$ is a regularization parameter balancing the trade-off between maximizing the margin and minimizing the classification error.
% \end{itemize}

\gls{svr} extends the principles of \gls{svm} to regression problems.
We use our previous discussion of \gls{svm} to introduce \gls{svr} based on \citet{druckerSVR}.

> Instead of finding the hyperplane that best separates data points, \gls{svr} aims to fit a function that predicts continuous values.
> But instead of using a hyperplane to separate the data, \gls{svr} uses two parallel hyperplanes to define a margin within which the function should lie, often referred to as the \textit{tube}.

Reviewer: From my understanding, it's actually often referred to as the epsilon tube (because $\epsilon$ is the hyperparameter controlling the 'width' covered by the two hyperplanes). But fine to refer to tube.

You write `instead of` twice, kind of referring to the same thing. I just reformulated to remove that.
```suggestion
\gls{svr} aims to fit a function that predicts continuous values rather than finding the hyperplane that best separates data points. 
Instead of using a hyperplane to separate the data, \gls{svr} uses two parallel hyperplanes to define a margin within which the function should lie, often referred to as the \textit{tube}.
```

Author: I added a little bit to clarify the part about the tube width with epsilon.

The goal is to find a function $f(x)$ that lies within this tube and has the maximum number of data points within the tube.
$f(x)$ is typically defined as a linear function of the form:

$$
f(x) = \mathbf{w} \cdot \mathbf{x} + b,
$$

where:

\begin{itemize}
	% \item $\mathbf{w} = [\beta_1, \beta_2, \ldots, \beta_n]$ is the weight vector,
	% \item $\mathbf{x} = [x_1, x_2, \ldots, x_n]$ is the input vector, and
	\item $\mathbf{w}$ is the weight vector,
	\item $\mathbf{x}$ is the input vector, and
	\item $b$ is the bias term.
\end{itemize}

> The two parallel hyperplanes at a distance $\epsilon$ from the hyperplane are as:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The two parallel hyperplanes at a distance $\epsilon$ from the hyperplane are defined as:
```
